# P1: User Research

## Project Idea

The group’s chosen project is the backend for a restaurant ordering system. 
 
### Main Purpose

The main purpose is for a restaurant’s staff to be able to manage orders. This includes essential functionality such as taking orders, scheduling orders (much like a wait list of sorts), editing orders, etc., but also advanced features such as statistics, dashboards, and (possibly) promotional tools. The purpose of this tool is manyfold: At its core, the tool should improve productivity in the way a restaurant manages its orders. This in turn will increase speed, reduce mistakes, and ultimately increase profitability. Other goals of the tool are to spread the word with promotional services such as newsletters, and give the staff an insight into how customers are using the menu with reporting tools. All things considered, the system will cover all the essential needs a restaurant faces in managing its orders, as well as some auxiliary needs that come up on the side.
 
### How should the system be used

The system is designed to be used by anyone who has something to do with orders (that is, waiters and chefs), as well as the restaurant owner who can manage the restaurant’s menu and use the system’s other administrative features. 
At its core, the system’s interaction starts with waiters taking orders from customers. Here, the waiter creates a new order. If a mistake was made, or the customer changes their mind, the order can be edited or deleted, as well. The next step in the lifecycle of an order takes place in the kitchen. A chef views a list of open orders, which shows the oldest orders first (i.e. the orders that should be processed first). Once an order has been completed, either the chef who prepared it, or the waiter who delivered it to the customer may mark it as “Done”. At this point it disappears from the list of open orders and appears in a list of completed orders. This latter list is used for analytics purposes. Finally, the owner can manage other aspects of the restaurant, such as the menu, via separate options in the system.
 
### By whom should the system be used

The system is to be used by the staff of the restaurant, particularly the waiters and chefs, as well as the restaurant’s owner (or managing staff). The waiters input the orders into the system, then the chefs can process orders. The owner can manage things like promotional offers, the menu, and such things.
 
### Context under which it is expected to be used

The context the system is expected to be used in is a restaurant environment and everything that potentially comes with that: Noisy customers, large customer groups, indecisive customers, busy kitchens with people accidentally spilling things, and such. Our main focus is any restaurant, which has waiters taking orders from customers and chefs processing these orders. The system can also be used in other scenarios like fast food/food truck establishments in the future, but the main context is a traditional restaurant.

## Stakeholders and Users

### Stakeholders

* Restaurant Staff
* Restaurant Owner
* Restaurant Customers
* Project Developers (that’s us)
* Project Investors (instructor & TA)

### Users

* Waiters
* Chefs
* Restaurant Owner or administrative staff

## User Research Methods

The three research methods chosen are Secondary source research (i.e. competitor analysis), Empathy tools, and passive observation (Fly on the Wall).

### Secondary research

Click [here]("https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BF1JK7MSND-c8idt_9dl_Ce0OIFXavYhzwcAeAWQOtU/edit?usp=sharing") to view a comparative analysis of three potential competitors in terms of pricing and features.

From this analysis we gather that there are certain core features that any tool designed to manage restaurant orders must have, as well as additional features that not every competitor offers. While certain features are clearly outside the scope of this project (i.e. have a dedicated website AND a branded mobile app), Must-Haves include menu building, dashboards of some kind (i.e. for outstanding orders), marketing tools (i.e. newsletters), payment processing, and reports/analytics. 

We believe that certain features may be more valuable than this comparison indicates. For example, notifications (via the app or text message), could prove essential in letting chefs know that a new order just came in. Thus, we are presented with a coherent list of ranked features that we aim to implement.

### Empathy tools

To analyze our system using the empathy tools method, we put ourselves in the shoes of the waiters and chefs using our app. This can give us a good idea of what features would be more important to our users. Using this method, we made several interesting discoveries. 

The first thing that we could conclude was that the waiters need a very fast and streamlined interface to interact with. We don't want our waiter to struggle entering orders in on a busy day. One possible way we can achieve this is by integrating more swipe motions so the UI flows easily from one screen to the next. Another thing we found is that the chefs need to be able to remove/delete orders very quickly and easily. Realistically, a chef is going to be very preoccupied with preparing the food, so we want our chef to be able to stay focused on the food rather than navigating our app. This can be done by reducing the amount of taps it takes to remove orders. Finally, the integration of notifications can also be very important to the chef, so he knows when an order has come in. All in all, optimizing and streamlining the UI was a major part of my findings using this method.

### Fly on the Wall

Going to a restaurant for dinner and observing waiters in their natural habitat, we made several observations that back up assumptions we made based on our empathy tools research. 

Waiters are almost always in a hurry - multitasking is essential to their job. Because of this, they need a tool that is very easy and fast to navigate. Their time is limited, so clicks should be minimized while affording them the greatest amount of functionality possible. The tool should be easy to understand and learn so that little time has to be spent familiarizing oneself with its work flow. Furthermore, waiters come in direct contact with customers all the time. Their focus is on customer service, so the tool should not distract them from that. Engagement methods such as gamification are out of the question, as they take up far too much time of the waiters' attention. While not directly observed in this experiment, all of the above points can be assumed to apply to chefs, well, based on our personal experiences.

### Reflections on User Research

Secondary research is a powerful method that can give a very good idea about what competitors are offering and what features may be absolutely essential for an app of this nature to have. Identifying features that may be important but are not yet widespread is somewhat difficult, as this requires knowledge about the success of each competitor (which can also be researched to some degree). Given the scope and allotted time for this project assignement, we chose to analyze only a few competitors based on their landing pages. With more time, requesting a demo of these products would give even more insight into what each product is offering.

Empathy tools can seem like a trivial or straightforward method to use when analyzing a system. However, it can be a very potent method to use. A common mistake of designing a system is thinking you're the user, this line of thinking can lead to some mediocre design choices. Just simply putting yourself in the shoes of your potential user base can lead to solutiong to many of the design problems that can occur. I never realized how important notifications could be to a chef using our system, these small design improvements can lead to a great enhancement of the final product. Although this is a very effective method, it has some weaknesses, one example being an inability to fully simulate your users. I ran into this problem when I realized the environment the waiter is working in is likely to be very loud and busy. I couldn't really simulate myself in that position since that is more something you can only truly experience in person. Maybe going to a crowded or loud area could have helped me improve the authenticity of my simulation.

Fly on the Wall observations were found to be effective in supporting hypothesis that were made aforehand. This research experiment deepened our knowledge about user's core needs and nice-to-have features. It also gave us an insight into things that should be avoided when designing the system. Fly on the wwall observations are a good method to use, because they allow us to gain insight into proceedings from a user's perspective without their attention being divided between their task and any researcher they may be aware of.

## Task Descriptions

### TD1

Jenny is a waitress at an Italian restaurant. She is in her 20’s and started only last week. Her supervisor is busy and has only limited time to teach her the intricacies of the ordering system. The restaurant is very busy and noisy. Jenny goes up to the next table of customers to take their order so that the kitchen may process it.

### TD2

Robin has been a waiter for over two decades. He is in his late 40’s. It is sunday at noon, and there are only a few customers having lunch. Robin just collected the order of one of them. The customer waves at Robin - he would like to change his order. So Robin opens the system wanting to edit the order he just saved.

### TD3

Mary is a waitress at 3-Michelin-Star restaurant. The atmosphere here is always quiet, even at peak hours. Two customers just arrived, and she promptly took their order. As she does so, she looks back to see the woman empty her glass of expensive red wine into the man’s face before storming out. The man runs after her. Mary immediately opens the ordering program, wanting to delete the order.

### TD4

Chef Gordon, a middle-aged man, just re-reopened his restaurant after a lengthy period of renovations. Customers are lining up outside the doors. He very much wants this evening to go smoothly, which is why he bought an ordering program and trained the entire staff in it the days before. He wants that the processing of orders to happen faster than before so that all customers can be served as quickly as possible.

### TD5

Olga owns a small, but well known family restaurant. Everyone here is all too familiar with the work routine. But lately, things have begun to deteriorate: He father is retired and cannot help out anymore. Her kids are leaving for university soon. In essence, she needs a new way to manage the restaurant that is faster and more efficient than the way this was handled up until now. She wants to be able to manage the menu and advertise the upcoming easter dinner promotional discount on roast goose with potato dumplings, red cabbage, and sauce, all on her own and without much effort.

### TD6

Matthew, a student in his 20's, was promoted and is now a chef on the side. Every finished meal feels like a little success. In order to be able to coordinate with other chefs and the waiters, he would like to be able to tell them all at once that an order is done.

<!-- 
## Resources
More insight into how to conduct certain methods
http://www.interaction-design.org/encyclopedia/
Sharp, H., Rogers, Y., and Preece, J. Interaction Design. (2002).
Moggridge, B. (2007) Designing Interactions. Cambridge, MA: The M.I.T. Press
http://designresearchtechniques.com/ - Even more research methods!
Task-centered Design Reading
Working through Task-Centered System Design. Greenberg, S. (2003) in Diaper, D. and Stanton, N. (Eds) The Handbook of Task Analysis for Human-Computer Interaction. Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
-->
