# P4: Final Report and Presentation

## Executive Summary

Restaurants have one of the busiest and most fast-paced work environments in the food industry. We wanted to create an application to assist restaurant workers and ensure their job goes as smoothly as possible. We learned a lot about how restaurants really work, and how hard their job can sometimes be. Using what we learned, we attempted to make an application that will tend to our users’ needs. The step-by-step process of coming up with ideas and bringing them to life was an enriching and invaluable experience.


## Introduction

The application we designed is the backend of a restaurant ordering system. The system is meant to be used by the staff of the restaurant and allows for a more direct and efficient workflow between employees. In most restaurants, the standard procedure is writing orders down by hand, and handing it to the chefs can be very inefficient. There can be many points in the process where mistakes or slips occur. Reducing the frequency in which these errors happen can drastically improve the quality of service in a restaurant. There are many goals we hope to achieve in designing this system, however the most essential one is an improvement in productivity across the board. We want to increase speed, reduce mistakes, and ultimately increase profitability. 

Furthermore, our goals do not just stay contained within the restaurant, we wish to spread the word with promotional services such as newsletters, and give the staff an insight into how customers are using the menu with reporting tools. All in all, this application will cover the vital needs a restaurant's requires to manage orders.


## Design Problem

Restaurants can be one of the more fast-paced and stressful environments to work in, with common tasks such as: Taking in multiple orders from different tables, getting orders done on time, and keeping customers satisfied while they wait. The staff are expected to perform all of these tasks as efficiently as possible to maintain a quality customer service experience. Just from observing restaurants and, in particular, the employees working there, we realized that there are two main problems hindering restaurants from providing quality customer service, speed and efficiency.

The first of these two problems we will discuss is speed. Generally speaking, speed can encompass a wide range of things, however what we mean by speed in this context is how quickly tasks are performed. As we mentioned in the previous part, writing orders down by hand and handing them to the kitchen can take time. That time could be spent taking in more orders, or performing other essential tasks. The speed in which these tasks are performed could result 
in a huge decrease in productivity. The way we addressed this problem is to automatically send orders to the kitchen when they are entered. This eliminates to need for the waiter to repeatedly return to the kitchen, the waiter can simply proceed to the next table or order. Increasing the speed in performing tasks can also greatly help the chefs in the kitchen. In our system, the chefs simply need to check the open orders, in order to see what to make next. Also, traditional written orders can sometimes be ineligible depending on the waiter, this would remove that possible source of error entirely. We live in an age of instant gratification, people want things as soon as they can get them, it’s one of the main reasons why fast food chains are so successful. If we can get restaurants to close that gap in immediacy, it can greatly improve the quality of product.

The second problem we had to address was efficiency. As we discussed above, speed is very important aspect of a good customer service experience. However, if the users are committing errors along the way, it counteract the speed in which the tasks are being performed. It is a very common occurrence for a waiter to get an order wrong, or a chef misreading an order. Our goal was to make these occurrences very rare, if not eliminate them completely. The order being sent directly to the chefs after being entered reduces the possibility of miscommunication between the waiter and chefs. The order is clear and the chef knows what to make next. Also, the oldest order being at the top of the open orders means customers who ordered first get their food first. All these additions reduce the chance of errors, and customers complaining. These were the problems we were trying to address in designing this system.


## User Research and Findings

We implemented three methods of user research, The three research methods chosen are secondary source research (i.e. competitor analysis), empathy tools, and passive observation (Fly on the Wall). We chose to do secondary research to learn more about the core features our system needed to have. Also, we decided to use empathy tools and passive observation to learn more about our user base, and their needs and habits. The way we approached our secondary research was to look up similar systems to ours and try and find a common set of core, or important features we needed to have. On the other hand, we used empathy tools by imagining what it would be like to use our app in a busy/crowded area. For the fly on the wall method we just observed local restaurants.

From the secondary research analysis we gathered is that there are certain core features that any tool intended to manage restaurant orders must have, as well as additional features that not every competitor offers. While certain features are clearly outside the scope of this project (i.e. have a dedicated website AND a branded mobile app), Must-Haves include menu building, dashboards of some kind (i.e. for outstanding orders), marketing tools (i.e. newsletters), payment processing, and reports/analytics. We believe that certain features may be more valuable than this comparison indicates. For example, notifications (via the app or text message), could prove essential in letting chefs know that a new order just came in, or notifying the waiter when an order is done.

The first thing that we could concluded from using empathy tools was that the waiters needed a very fast and streamlined interface to interact with. We didn’t want our waiter to struggle entering orders in on a busy day. One possible way we can achieve this is by adding more swipe motions so the UI flows smoothly from one screen to the next. Another thing we found is that the chefs need to be able to remove/delete orders very quickly and easily. Realistically, a chef is going to be very preoccupied with preparing the food, so we want our chef to be able to stay focused on the food rather than navigating our app. This can be done by reducing the amount of taps it takes to remove orders. Finally, the integration of notifications can also be very important to the chef, so he knows when an order has come in. All in all, optimizing and streamlining the UI was a major part of our findings using this method.

Through the fly on the wall method we quickly realized that waiters needed a tool that is very easy and fast to navigate. Their time is limited, so clicks should be minimized while affording them the greatest amount of functionality possible. The tool should be easy to understand and learn so that little time has to be spent familiarizing oneself with its work flow. Furthermore, waiters come in direct contact with customers all the time. Their focus is on customer service, so the tool should not distract them from that. Engagement methods such as gamification are out of the question, as they take up far too much time of the waiters' attention. While not directly observed in this experiment, all of the above points can be assumed to apply to chefs, well, based on our personal experiences.


## Design and Justification

The design decisions regarding the system can be grouped into essential ones, and expendable ones. Essential design decisions were made in order to address two core qualities the system needs to have: Order Management (to satisfy the main functional requirement), and a Streamlined Flow (to satisfy the main usability requirement). 

A restaurant order has three steps in its lifetime: Creation, Processing, and Completion. The system we designed aims to facilitate order management by handling each of these steps in succinct way. The main menu displays three prominent options (‘Create Order’, ‘Open Orders’, and ‘Completed Orders’), as well as a fourth, less important option (‘Settings’). Settings, while maybe suggesting something slightly different, was used to group away additional unimplemented features that would make sense in future iterations of the system, and should then be aptly reworded. The other three options relate to order management:
* Create Order: This option lets users create a new order.
* Open Orders: This options lets users process orders that have not yet been completed.
* Completed Orders: This option lets users view all completed orders.

As was explained in class, good design makes an informed choice about what users should be able to do, and what they shouldn’t be able to do. This system should be thought of as a productivity application with the purpose of speeding up every aspect of order management and reducing unnecessary work. Because of this, we decided to focus all currently implemented functionality on orders rather than including other features. Of course, there are other features that would naturally extend order management (such as Menu Management), and the section on recommendations for future iterations will go further into those. 

Because this system was conceived as a productivity application, the main usability requirement was to make the system as streamlined as possible. In other words, speed and error prevention are at the top of the list of design priorities. In some cases, this may have come at the (known) loss of clarity, but we believe that such trade offs are a necessary means to the end of increasing performance and streamlining the interaction flow of the system. An additional consideration was that the intended target audience may not have much technical knowledge, and so may not be used to using a system to manage orders rather than simply using pen and paper. The design thus tries to keep the interface and interaction flow as simple and minimalistic as possible in order to strike a balance between clarity and speed.

To preserve simplicity and prevent motor-control slips and cognitive mistakes, the buttons throughout the app are kept large and visually distinct. To further increase error prevention, buttons were almost exclusively placed in vertically lines, taking up the entire width of the screen. Where buttons were placed in a horizontal order due to space limitations (i.e. the order creation page), the primary call to action is visually very distinct from the secondary CTA, which is made to look like a text link rather than a button. Additionally, each block of coherent information was put into one page. This lead to some variance regarding how much information a page displays, but helps users by giving each page a clear, overt purpose.


## Heuristic Evaluation and Findings

During the heuristic evaluation, we found that in our effort to keep the system as fast and easy to use as possible, we had inadvertently made it too rigid. Order management requires a certain degree of flexibility, because a restaurant is a like a living, breathing organism: Processes and work practices aren’t set in stone; they are constantly adjusted to ever-changing customer demands and human error. The system does not take that into consideration at this point, and the most obvious example of this lack of flexibility is that orders cannot be created with some kind of special instruction or comment (i.e. Table #12 has ordered the Wor Wonton Soup, but does not want any broccoli in it).
    
Another shortcoming we identified is the lack of platform-specific implementations. A system like this only makes sense as a mobile application, which is best suited for mobile phones. The most common smartphone systems are Android and Apple, so there should be at least two versions of the system, one using Android-specific design guidelines (such as using the built-in ‘Back’ button), and another using iOS-specific design guidelines. This would decrease the learning curve each user faces when first starting to learn how to use the system.
    
The app needed to be accessible to less technically savvy users. One flaw we found (though it is more the absence of an additional feature than a design flaw) is that users have to remember and manually type out menu items when creating orders. This would easily be fixed by introducing a menu management feature, such that when entering menu items for a new order, and auto-complete function lets users pick from a range of existing items. Another potential fix for this is to have users choose items from some sort of menu displaying items via categories, dropdowns, and such.

One more flexibility issue that should be mentioned is the way order numbers are handled. When creating an order, the order number will be filled in with the latest number (auto-incrementing from some database entry). This creates some problems for concurrent order creations, as well as confusion. The idea behind leaving the order number editable was to give users a way to prioritize certain orders (i.e. create an order with order number 1000 so to display it at the top of the table of open orders). However, we realize that there are many better ways of giving users this option, for example the ability to mark an order as ‘High Priority’ when creating it.

A myriad of other less severe usability problems were found during the heuristic evaluation. Most of these describe visual inconsistencies, or designs that could use some slight adjustment to better support the rest of the system. All in all, we are confident that the system needs to be redesigned with the above issues in mind. Once those improvements are implemented, it should be much more flexible and usable in facilitating order management throughout all stages of the lifetime of an order, which is the main purpose of the system, and the only purpose of this prototype.


## Recommendations for Next Iteration of Design

The next iterations of the design should address issues found during the heuristic evaluation, in particular the lack of flexibility. This will make the system far more usable, and bring it closer to the reality of restaurants. Fixing various small inconsistencies will further increase the experience users will have while using the system. Aside from fixing aspects of the system design that are broken, additional features could be designed and implemented to further increase productivity and round out the user experience. 

The first of these features is Menu Management. Every restaurant has a menu, and menu items may change over time. The system should allow a manager to create and edit the menu. The rest of the system would benefit from this, too. For example, when creating an order, rather than having to remember the menu and entering an item manually, the system might offer autocomplete suggestions. Alternatively, rather than entering an item into a text field, a waiter could be presented with a popup menu of categories or dropdowns from which to choose. The latter idea, however, might prove counterproductive as choosing items from a menu is further removed from reality, where orders are often written out by hand on a piece of paper. This may confuse users who do not use smartphones very often. An A/B Test over some time may give conclusive evidence as to which version would work better.

Another addition to future iterations may come in the form of promotional marketing. Many restaurants offer seasonal deals. The system could be extended to include newsletter management, so that managers may advertise these promotions. While this feature might be very useful, it is also connected to a lot of work, as newsletters require customer data, which would have to be stored, displayed, and made editable by users.

Both of the above suggestions include the idea of only managers using them. It should be noted that this would require an additional feature: User Profiles. Users must be given different roles with different permissions in order to distinguish between managers and other staff. Indeed, such a feature would have even more benefits: The system could be customized to show only options that are relevant to a certain user group (i.e. waiters can only create orders, chefs can only process orders, etc.), which would increase clarity, remove unnecessary clutter, and further increase productivity for all user groups.

Yet another feature that managers might be interested in is Business Reports. The current system was, in fact, designed with this in mind for a future iteration. Completed orders currently serve no other purpose besides displaying details about a past completed order. This could be extended to track both completed and deleted orders to generate reports about average order processing time and other such metrics that may be of interest to restaurants. However, this feature is not directly related to the original purpose of the system, and so should be given a much lower priority than other features in our eyes.

A final consideration is implementing a POS / payment feature. We consciously decided against including this feature for various reasons. For one, payment via smartphones does not work, because a receipt needs to be printed, and if some other gadget is required to do so, then the app itself has no real purpose. Further, the current standard for payment processing (credit card machines) is so widely implemented that attempting to reinvent this feature inside the app may actually drive potential users away. We wanted the system to serve a specific purpose, and including other unrelated features would put quantity above quality, which is not something that smartphone apps do well.


## Conclusions

Overall, we are happy with what we ended up with at this point. While there are undoubtedly issues that need to be fixed, we managed to design something that remains true to what we were forced wanted  to make. During secondary research, we saw a lot of tools that stack many features together and end up creating a bunch of separate, individual tools. When it comes to creating a restaurant ordering system, many of these features were completely irrelevant, so we wanted to focus on order management in particular. With a few additions to the system and with a competitive price point, we believe that medium and small restaurants could benefit significantly from our system. 
